# Firebase Crash Quickstart

The Firebase Crash Test Application (testapp) demonstrates logging various
Firebase Crash events using the Firebase Unity SDK.  The application has a
basic set of buttons that trigger various events from the Crash API.


## Requrements

The testapp requires version 5.3 of Unity or higher.


## Introduction

[Read more about Firebase Crash](https://firebase.google.com/docs/crash/)


## Building the testapp

### Android

  - Register your Android app with Firebase.
    - Create a new app on the [Firebase
      console](https://firebase.google.com/console/), and attach your Android
      app to it.
      - You can use "com.google.firebase.unity.crash.testapp" as the Package Name
        while you're testing.
      - To [generate a SHA1](https://developers.google.com/android/guides/client-auth)
        run this command on Mac and Linux,
        ```
        keytool -exportcert -list -v -alias androiddebugkey -keystore ~/.android/debug.keystore
        ```
        or this command on Windows,
        ```
        keytool -exportcert -list -v -alias androiddebugkey -keystore %USERPROFILE%\.android\debug.keystore
        ```
      - If keytool reports that you do not have a debug.keystore, you can
        [create one with](http://developer.android.com/tools/publishing/app-signing.html#signing-manually),
        ```
        keytool -genkey -v -keystore ~/.android/debug.keystore -storepass android -alias androiddebugkey -keypass android -dname "CN=Android Debug,O=Android,C=US"
        ```
    - Download a `google-services.json` file from the Firebase console.
      This file identifies your Android app to the Firebase backend, and will
      need to be included in the testapp later.
    - For further details please refer to the [general
      instructions for setting up an Android app with
      Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/docs/android/setup).
  - Download the [Firebase Unity SDK](https://dev-partners.googlesource.com/unity-firebase/+archive/zip.tar.gz)
    and unzip it somewhere convenient.
  - Open the testapp project in the Unity editor.
  - Open the scene MainScene
  - Import the custom package FirebaseApp.unitypackage from the Firebase
    Unity SDK, downloaded previously.  (From the menu, select
    Assets > Import Package > Custom Package)
  - Import the custom package FirebaseCrash.unitypackage in the same way.
  - From the menu, select Assets > Google Play Services > Resolve Client Jars.
    Note that this option will only appear on the menu if you have both
    imported the firebase packages, and set the build target to Android.
  - Take the `google-services.json` that was downloaded earlier, and copy it
    into your the testapp's `Assets` directory.
    (Note: This has to be done after the packages are loaded, so that the plugin
    notices the file and generates the appropriate resource files.)
  - Double check:  At this point, several files should have been generated by
    the plugin, and be present in your `Assets` directory:
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/Firebase/res/values/google-services.xml`
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/firebase-crash-9.0.0.aar`
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/firebase-crash-impl-9.0.0.aar`
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/firebase-crash-9.0.0.aar`
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/firebase-common-9.0.0` (Directory)
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/firebase-iid-9.0.0` (Directory)
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/play-services-base-9.0.0.aar`
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/play-services-basement-9.0.0.aar`
     - `Assets/Plugins/Android/play-services-tasks-9.0.0.aar`
  - Build the Unity project and run it on your Android device.
  - After ~20 minutes, data should be visible in the Firebase Console under the
    "Crash" tab accessible from
    [https://firebase.google.com/console/]().


### iOS

  - Register your iOS app with Firebase.
    - Create a new app on the [Firebase
      console](https://firebase.google.com/console/), and attach your Android
      app to it.
      - You can use "com.google.firebase.unity.crash.testapp" as the Package Name
        while you're testing.
    - Download a `GoogleService-Info.plist` file from the Firebase console.
      This file identifies your iOS app to the Firebase backend, and will
      need to be included in the testapp later.
    - For further details please refer to the [general instructions for setting
      up an iOS app with Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/docs/ios/setup).
  - Download the [Firebase Unity SDK](https://dev-partners.googlesource.com/unity-firebase/+archive/zip.tar.gz)
    and unzip it somewhere convenient.
  - Open the testapp project in the Unity editor.
  - Open the scene MainScene
  - Import the custom package FirebaseApp.unitypackage from the Firebase
    Unity SDK, downloaded previously.  (From the menu, select
    Assets > Import Package > Custom Package)
  - Import the custom package FirebaseCrash.unitypackage in the same way.
  - Build your project for iOS.
  - Navigate to the xcode project that was created by Unity, and create a new
    file called Podfile, with the following contents:
    ```
    source 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git'
    platform :ios, '8.0'

    target 'Unity-iPhone' do
      pod 'Firebase/Crash'
    end
    ```
  - From the terminal, navigate to the project directory, and run `pod install`.
  - From the terminal, run `open Unity-iPhone.xcworkspace` to open xcode.
    (Important: Launch it from `Unity-iPhone.xcworkspace` and not
    `Unity-iPhone.xcproject`.  Launching from `Unity-iPhone.xcproject` will
    cause problems.)
  - Under 'Build Settings' of the project, add `$(inherited)` to "Other Linker
    Flags".
  - Drag the `GoogleServices-Info.plist` file from finder into the root of the
    project in xcode.
  - Build the Unity project and run it on your Android device.
  - After ~20 minutes, data should be visible in the Firebase Console under the
    "Crash" tab accessible from
    [https://firebase.google.com/console/]().


## Using the testapp

When run, the testapp will provide a simple interface with several buttons,
which trigger various functions from Crash.

 - **Crash Log** will add a log statement to the crash report, via the
   Crash.Log() function.
 - **Crash Logcat** uses Crash.Logcat(), which is identical to Crash.Log(),
   except it also logs to the adb logcat.
 - **Crash Report** calls Crash.Report(), to trigger sending a crash report
   that should be visible in your Firebase Console after ~20 minutes.
 - **Create Uncaught Exception** causes an exception to be thrown and not
   handled.  This causes Crash Report to fire automatically.


## Support

[https://firebase.google.com/support/]()


## License

Copyright 2016 Google, Inc.

Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more contributor
license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for
additional information regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this
file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

